We're mainly feed lot cowboys.
Our primary job
is like navigating among different herds
or move them to different locations.
If they'resick, we doctor them.
Meet Bruce Wang, a Texas cowboy that was born
and raised insouthwest China.
Bruce first arrived in theUS 13 years ago as an international student.
Hehas built a new life for himself here in the deepsouth.
This is his journey of finding identity
as a Chinese immigrant in today's America.
Uh right now we're in Smyre, Texas.
I wasriding Bill and he's back there chilling
this morning. Most of the time he, he was
he was a good boy.
I'm from Yunnan. All right, so we have a lot of minor ethnic groups
thatdo have the tradition of breeding horses.
I was drawn to this culture after I came to Texas.
And I began by putting cowboy boots and hat
on myself. But at the same time, I felt
something was lacking, right?
Like you dress up like a cowboy and you speak like
a cowboy, but you don't do cowboy stuff,right?
It doesn't make you a full cowboy.
And thatwas when I decided to say,
"Hey, maybe I need to go into the cattle industry and
becomea full cowboy."
They look good. They look good.
I came to the States at the age of 20 as an
international student.
Generally there's a huge decline in in terms of
Chinese student population.
Maybe I belong to the last wave of Chinese international students
who came here by a largenumber.
The number of Chinese students who came to study
in the US last September
dropped by almosta third from its peak in 2017
amid tightened American immigration rules
and worsening US Chinarelations.
Even fewer Chinese students decide to stay after graduation.
Bruce didn't plan to stayat first, until he met his wife Bethany.
What are you laughing about? Do you remember?
I think thatwas when we kissed. Yeah. Then your sister said, "Gross."
I just I'm still, honestly, I'm stillso amazed that you
found me from all the way across the world.
I'm still so amazed. Oh, metoo.
The couple met during their PhD program at Texas Tech University.
They got married two yearsago.
Bethany is also learning Chinese. She hopes to visit Bruce's family
in China once they havesaved enough money.
How do you say I'm Chinese?
- Zhe Shi Zhong Guo, no, that’s China...
Wo Shi, Zhong Guo Ren.
- Wo Shi, Zhong Guo Ren.
Today, Bruce and Bethany areinvited to
their friend Tracy's new house.
Thanks for letting us come.
- Of course.
Tracy first met Bruce 12 years ago when he was working as an
internationalstudent advisor at Bruce's university.
Amen.
Over the years, he not only guided Bruce
through his immigration journey, but also became a close friend.
Have you ever used this gun whenwe've been hunting?
- No, I used the other one.
The one with like the pump?
- Right?
We'regoing to kind of oil all the pieces and kind of clean it up.
International students arelike a very valued members of the American society and that they're our neighbours,
they're ourfriends, uh just like many of us who were born here.
In the 2024 fiscal year, F1 student visadenial rates
surged to a 10-year high.
Even those already in the US could face visa revocation.
Bruce considers himself lucky.
He earned his PhD last summer and hopes to stay in Texas.
Thesouthern parts of the United States sometimes is not represented
very well around the world.
A lot offolks here, they're hardworking.
They're just like folks in China, right? Who want to support their
own families and have a reasonably good life.
China and America right now are in
a competitiverelationship.
Whatever conflicts are going on between the two countries,
and as long asyou're willing to listen to their stories,
they're willing to open up their hearts to you.
So, I've been here in America for close to 13 years.
Yeah. So, a good chunk of my life.
I'dlove to stay here since I have a family here.
But if I have to go back to China,
I won't letgo of this cowboy part of me.
It won't go away.